Statistical Analysis
Data analysis was carried out using Stata/MP 13.0 for Windows.
The study collected paired data: pretest scores before the training and posttest scores after the training. The analysis explores the relationships between the intial score and change in score (posttest minus pretest).

When using Likert-type scales it is imperative to calculate and report Cronbach’s alpha coefficient for internal consistency reliability for any scales or subscales one may be using.  The analysis of the data then must use these summated scales or subscales and not individual items. If one does otherwise, the reliability of the items is at best probably low and at worst unknown. Cronbach’s alpha does not provide reliability estimates for single items.

you can use Kruskal-Wallis on summed Likert items assuming the groups have the same general shape and spread (a common assumption for nonparametric tests that compare groups).

use a paired t-test

2-sample t-test

dependent means t-test compares the same group of people on a single dimension

ANCOVAs using pre-test scores as a covariate better account for the differences among students, so that the treatments’ effect on student learning is tested rather than the selection of students in a class. 

learning gains = post - pre 
normalized learning gains 
ANCOVA using pre-test score as a covariate

post-test scores as the dependent variable

learning gains are an acceptable dependent variable. The only difference in the analysis is that the slope of the line will be rotated 45 degrees. While ANCOVAs with post-tests will almost always have a positive slope, ANCOVAs with learning gains will have a negative slope.

Results
Out of the 206 participants, 112 (54.36%)completed both the pre and post tests questionnaires. 94 (45.64%) participants did not complete the post test questionnaire and were excluded from the analysis.


Their results showed an increase in comfort, enjoyment, and confidence in using technology from the beginning to the end of the course. As the research questions focused on student and instructor/tutor perceptions, direct measures of learning were not included to evaluate the instructional effectiveness of the technology-enhanced curriculum.  

QI




Partner/Clinical Site:
Harare Hospital        
Howard Hospital	
Howard hospital	
MSU Gweru ProvincialHospital	
Medicine	
NUST M pilo Hospital	
NUST Mpilo Hospital	
NUST Mplilo Hospital	
Parirenyatwa	
Parirenyatwa Center of Excellence (OI..	
Parirenyatwa Hospital	
Parireyatwa Hospital	
UNKNOWN	

Module 1 Likert Scale

I am missing question 7 on the questionnaire but there is data. What is the question for m1_2_7	pre-test, module 1, Likert question #7 


The research question is whether the group have improvements in the dependent variable from pre to post test.

But most of the time in Pre-Post studies, the interest is in the change from pre to post across groups.


The ANCOVA approach answers a different research question: whether the post-test means, adjusted for pre-test scores, differ between the two groups.

Time2 of the variable of interest as the outcome and time 1, covariates and group as predictors

 difference in mean post-treatment scores
 
 Linear Mixed Model - due to missing data
 
